Complete the skeleton for draft-00 (#62)
junyechen1996/draft-chen-cfrg-vdaf-pine: draft-chen-cfrg-vdaf-pine.md

high communication overhead between the Client and Aggregators, roughly
`num_frac_bits * dimension` field elements (see {{pine-user-param}}).

> Rather than prevent wraparounds from occuring, PINE uses a probabilistic test
> to detect whether a wraparound has occured. This test works as follows. A

Reviewer: I don't think Aggregators can ever prevent wraparounds from occurring? How about:

```suggestion
In order to detect whether a wraparound has occurred, PINE uses a probabilistic test,
which works as follows: A
```

random vector over the field is generated (via a procedure described in
{{vdaf}}) where each entry is equal to `1`, `0`, or `q-1`, each with a
particular probability: to test for wraparound, compute the dot product of this
vector and the gradient and check if the result in a specific range. The range
is determined by parameters in {{pine-user-param}}.

If the norm wraps around the field modulus, then the dot product is likely to
be large. In fact, {{ROCT23}} show that this test correctly detects warparounds
with probability `1/2`. To decrease the false negative probability (that is,

> the probability of missclassifying an invalid gradient as valid), we simply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the probability of misclassifying an invalid gradient as valid), we simply
```

repeat this test a number of times, each time with a vector sampled from the
same distribution.

However, {{ROCT23}} also show that each wraparound test has a non-zero false

> positive probability (the probability of missclassifying a valid gradient as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
positive probability (the probability of misclassifying a valid gradient as
```

invalid). This creates a problem for privacy, as the Aggregators learn
information about a valid gradient they were not meant to learn: whether its
dot product with a known vector is in a particular range. [CP: We need a more
intuitive explanation of the information that's leaked.] The parameters of PINE
are chosen carefully in order to ensure this leakage is negligible.

# The PINE Proof System {#flp}

This section specifies a randomized encoding of gradients and FLP circuit

> ({{Section 7.3 of !VDAF}}) for checking that (1) computes the gradient's
> squared L2-norm and checks that it falls in the desired range and (2) checking
> that the squared L2-norm does not wrap around the field modulus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
({{Section 7.3 of !VDAF}}) for checking that (1) the gradient's
squared L2-norm falls in the desired range and (2) the squared L2-norm does not wrap around the field modulus.
```

The encoding algorithm takes as input the gradient and an XOF seed used to

> derive the random vectors for the wraparoundt tests. The seed must be known

Reviewer: ```suggestion
derive the random vectors for the wraparound tests. The seed must be known
```

> We also want to mention the multiproof feature and the relationship between
> the number of proofs, the field size, and soundness.
>
> Remember, keep it short and intuitive. The full specificaiton of the
> algorithms will come later, in a future draft. If you're using too many
> variable names, then you're probably not on the right track.

## Sharding

> TODO Specify the implementation of `Vdaf.shard()`.

## Preparation

> TODO Specify the implementations of `Vdaf.prep_init()`,
> `.prep_shares_to_prep()`, and `.prep_next()`.

## Aggregation

> TODO Specify the implementation of `Vdaf.aggregate()`.

## Unsharding

> TODO Specify the implementation of `Vdaf.unshard()`.

# Variants

> TODO Specify concrete parameterizations of VDAFs, including the choice of
> field, number of proofs, and valid ranges for the parameters in
> {{pine-user-param}}.

# Security Considerations

Our security considerations for PINE are the same as those for Prio3 described
in {{Section 9 of !VDAF}}.

> XXX Given that we can tune the parameters such that the ZK error is
> negligible, I don't think this needs to be mentioned here.
>

> > Is there anything else worth mentioning?

Reviewer: The other difference from Prio3 is there are two Fiat-Shamir derivation, so the robustness needs to account for the random oracle attack from both wraparound joint randomness and verification joint randomness?

Author: Our goal will be to tune the parameters such that the user doesn't have to worry about this.
